{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1138\cocoasubrtf320
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Menlo-Bold;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Menlo-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue245;}
{\info
{\author Amit Choudhary}
{\*\company UMASS Lowell}
{\*\copyright Ask before Using}}\margl1440\margr1440\vieww25400\viewh14520\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\qc

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 Assignment 1
\f1\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\qc

\f0\b \cf0 Simple Drawing Program (15 points)\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\f1\b0 \cf0 \uc0\u8232 The objective of this assignment is augment the simple OpenGL drawing program and menu example that was provided to the class on the February 7 Code Example.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\f0\b \cf0 Requirements:
\f1\b0 \
1. Enhance the screen clearing menu option by making it a sub-menu providing the option to clear the screen to either black or white.\
2. Add an additional submenu to select whether the drawn shapes are filled or unfilled.\'a0 (You can use GL_LINE_LOOP instead of polygons for unfilled shapes.)\
3. Add an additional shape to the shape selection menu.\'a0 This can be any shape of your choice - for example, a circle or a pentagon.\'a0 When this shape is selected, clicking the left mouse button should draw this shape centered on the mouse cursor location.\
4. In the class example, resizing the screen deleted all drawn items since they were only stored in the frame\'a0 buffer.\'a0 Create appropriate data structures (models) for the drawn items and an appropriate data structure for storing all drawn items.\'a0 When the screen is resized, redraw all items scaled to fit the new screen proportions.\
5.\'a0 All items must be properly redrawn if the window is obscured and then exposed.\
For 
\f0\b extra credit (3 points)
\f1\b0  , provide an option for drawing lines.\'a0 When the line option is selected, left clicking at a cursor location will define one endpoint of the line.\'a0 Clicking at a second location will draw the line.\'a0 For an additional 
\f0\b 2 points
\f1\b0  add an option for drawing rectangles with the selected points corresponding to diagonal vertices.\

\f0\b \'a0\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "mailto:%20hcm@mitre.org"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Questions?}}\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280
\cf0 Submittal\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\f1\b0 \cf0 \uc0\u8232 Assignment 1 is due February 24, 2012 .\'a0 Source code should be submitted by email.\'a0 Assignments that are one week late will receive two thirds credit.\'a0 Assignments that are two weeks late will receive one half credit. Submission should be in the form of a 
\f0\b well-commented
\f1\b0  source code, preferably written in ANSI C. C++ is also acceptable. It is expected that students will use OpenGL and GLUT for this assignment.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280

\f0\b \cf0 Academic Honesty\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\f1\b0 \cf0 I expect that all code submitted by students in this course will be their own.\'a0 In exceptional circumstances it is permissible to borrow small portions of code from other authors. Whenever this is done, the student must provide appropriate references. References must include the author of the code and a location that I can use to check the source.\'a0\'a0 Submissions that include copied but unreferenced code will receive zero credit.\
}